---
published: true
---
## Theta burst stimulation
Repetitive stimulation is often used to invoke various forms of long term synaptic plasticity such as LTP (long term potentiation) and LTD (long term depression) and so the tool can be used to estimate the specific connections that will be strengthened during long term potentiation.

Setting up the simulation involves setting the model Tissue and Neuron parameters in the same way as for STP but now loading the connection parameters from loadRatConnectionParamsSTDP.m, the weigths and number of connections for which are loaded from the file loadConnectionsSTDP.m. Here the synaptic parameters for each neuron are randomly selected from a Gaussian distribution during the building of the model to account for natural variation. 

~~~~

ConnectionParams(i).axonArborSpatialModel = 'gaussian';

~~~~

When building a simulation users will specify which synapse model to instantiate by providing the postfix of the class name. Here it is ensured that spike-timing dependent plasticity is present on excitatory synapses using the SynapseModel_g_exp_mt_stdp, which extends the SynapseModel_g_exp, STPModel_mt, and STDPModel. User will then also have to provide the parameters for the model. These can be specified either as a single value, or as a distribution. A single value will result in each synapse of this synapse group object having the same value, specifying  distribution will result in each synapse having a unique value drawn at random from the distribution. The distribution name should correspond to one of the names specified in the documentation of MATLAB’s makedist function (part of the Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox). The user will also need to provide properties for the distribution such as mean and standard deviation for a normal distribution. This allows a network to be compiled taking into consideration the natural variance found in these properties on a cell-to-cell basis.

~~~~

if ismember(i, excitatory)
                ConnectionParams(i).synapseType{j} = 'g_exp_mt_stdp';
                ConnectionParams(i).preRate{j} = 0.05;
                ConnectionParams(i).postRate{j} = -0.05;
                ConnectionParams(i).wmin{j} = 0;
                ConnectionParams(i).wmax{j} = 100;
                if ismember(i, superficialPY)
                    ConnectionParams(i).tPre{j} = 25;
                    ConnectionParams(i).tPost{j} = 75;
                elseif ismember(i, deepPY)
                    ConnectionParams(i).tPre{j} = 25;
                    ConnectionParams(i).tPost{j} = 25;
                end
            else
                ConnectionParams(i).synapseType{j} = 'g_exp_mt';
            end
            
~~~~

STDP is included in the simulation by the specification of a pair of time constants, one for the postsynaptic neuron firing that defines the decay of a potential weight decrease given a subsequent presynaptic spike and one for the presynaptic neuron firing that defines the decay of a potential weight increase given a subsequent postsynaptic spike. These potential weight changes can be seen as traces and are stored as variables , Apost and Apre respectively. When a postsynaptic spike occurs Apost is increased by a fixed, user defined, amount ratepost and the synaptic weight is updated by applying the addition of Apre. Similarly when a presynaptic spike occurs Apre is increased by a fixed, user defined, amount ratepre and the synaptic weight is updated by applying the addition of Apost. In the STDP model A_pre is a vector with an entry for each presynaptic neuron, and A_postwith an entry for each postsynaptic cell. These user defined parameters can be found within the if statement above.

The same stimulating electrode field is also loaded as with STP but now on and off times must be set for theta burst stimulation using the post fixes StimulationOn and Off as shown below. 

 ~~~~
 TissueParams.StimulationOn = [2700,2710,2720,2730,2740,2900,2910,2920,2930,2940,3100,3110,3120,3130,3140,3300,3310,3320,3330,3340,3500,3510,3520,3530,3540,3700,3710,3720,3730,3740,4940];
TissueParams.StimulationOff = [2700.50000000000,2710.50000000000,2720.50000000000,2730.50000000000,2740.50000000000,2900.50000000000,2910.50000000000,2920.50000000000,2930.50000000000,2940.50000000000,3100.50000000000,3110.50000000000,3120.50000000000,3130.50000000000,3140.50000000000,3300.50000000000,3310.50000000000,3320.50000000000,3330.50000000000,3340.50000000000,3500.50000000000,3510.50000000000,3520.50000000000,3530.50000000000,3540.50000000000,3700.50000000000,3710.50000000000,3720.50000000000,3730.50000000000,3740.50000000000,4940.50000000000];
TissueParams.StimulationOn = TissueParams.StimulationOn - 2650;
TissueParams.StimulationOff = TissueParams.StimulationOff - 2650;
~~~~

[Previous](https://ratneuro.github.io/Part-2-STP/)
[Next](https://ratneuro.github.io/Part-4-Conclusion/)
